---

category: present
title: "Version 0.4.4"
description: "improve repo clone performance"
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1816471/115645234-02556880-a2ee-11eb-9e7d-e5c434632cf2.png
video:

date: 2021-08-23
started: 2021-08-23
released:
updated:

---

FOCUS:  

remove/modify operations which incur a big performance hit, like cloning all file contents versus downloading as used.   

support for git command options clone and config to coincide with "terminal-first" effort mentioned elsewhere.   

TODO:   
- [X] remove files from service manifest that don't need to be there
- [X] move templates to their own repo
- [X] keep repo files on github until needed
- [X] service worker build system
- [X] init modules refactor (each major comdule to its own folder)
- [X] DO NOT: download all github files when cloning repo
- [X] DO NOT: save files to wrong location with empty contents (BUG SOMEWHERE CAUSES THIS)
- [X] git clone: download a repo that doesn't already exist
- [X] when git commit fails should not blow away changes
- [ ] service worker should:
	- [X] ignore contents of .git folder
	- [ ] use .git/config for credentials
- [ ] git diff should not show .git folder changes
- [X] "root" terminal; change the way terminal determines currently loaded service
- [ ] git config, esp at root (for intial clone and storing user info/creds)
  - [X] local file update
  - [ ] global file update
  - [ ] update service tree (so that new file appears in tree)
  - [ ] file changes work with editor state
  - [ ] show file explorer at root
- [ ] file "##PLACEHOLDER##"
  - [ ] should not be used for diffs
  - [ ] possible there are other issues with this
- [ ] service worker should clean up previous cache stores (but not app state)


### WORKED ON, BUT UNPLANNED:
- editor
	- auto-indent
	- invisibles opacity
	- [yaml mode](https://codemirror.net/mode/yaml/index.html)
		- see also [https://github.com/nodeca/js-yaml](https://github.com/nodeca/js-yaml)
		- see also [https://github.com/eemeli/yaml](https://github.com/eemeli/yaml)
	- [ini mode](https://codemirror.net/mode/properties/index.html)
- tree
	- icons: yaml, editorconfig, license, .gitignore, .git/config
- favicon for beta
- isometric git exploration
- plugins/extensions exploration



<!-- more -->

### isometric git exploration

I had a fun time talking myself into and out of integrating [isometric git](https://isomorphic-git.org/en/).


I'll say first what motivated me to explorer isogit.  This system doesn't leverage any library for its git or file system abstractions.
Nuff said?  I feel like this point could and already has been labored.  Got a meme about wheel invention we can throw at this paragraph?

That being said, I'm not convinced that what git does is also what an web/cloud IDE should do.  I'm looking at you, .git folder.
It all feels way more verbose than I think appropriate here, at least for now.

Here's what I'd like to do, indeed why I am exploring this:
1. grab all the metadata about files and dirs in repo
2. only download the files when they are used
3. offer an option to go offline (download all the files)

And here's what I understand about what [git clone](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone) does:
1. grab all the metadata about files, dirs, and history of changes in repo
2. download all the files in their current state and (somehow) all info needed to reconstruct history

git and isogit grab "everything" and I only want to grab what is needed unless I have to for offline mode.  But that's not all they do.
They also offer a mature interface and a sort of workflow for doing all that.  With fiug, I do not have that mature interface implemented.
And I'd really like to NOT have to re-invent that.

isogit "comes with" a file system as well, [lightning-fs](https://github.com/isomorphic-git/lightning-fs).
This filesystem abstraction provides a good share of what one might need when using a filesystem. These should look familiar to anyone that has fooled around in a unix terminal:   

- readFile
- writeFile
- unlink
- readdir
- mkdir
- rmdir
- stat
- lstat
- readlink
- symlink
- chmod

fiug has a good portion of these, but it's missing symlinks, file modes, and file status.  Repeat what was said about not reinventing.

Here's why I did not take the plunge and commit fiug to either isogit, lightning-fs, or even [browserFS](https://github.com/jvilk/BrowserFS).
Changing what I have to support what I mentioned I'd like to do above means a small change.  And commiting to any of the alternatives means a bigger change.
So it makes more sense to do the small change and revisit the large change after I take off the execution hat and put back on the product hat.

I don't feel terribly great about this, but I'm confident that it's the right way to move forward.
Make sure that progress on the thing at hand is made, then decide if the future awesome is worth it later.
This may mean that I move `git pull` out of this version, but I will definitely have `git clone` and it will work as expected unless you look under the hood.


### build versus transpile

I've been working on supporting two similar features: `import` resolution in workers and module bundling.  I'll detail both of these and then talk about what I think is interesting about both taken together.

First, a little background on imports.  I've used es6 modules as much as possible in writing browser code for fiug.
I've been surprised how possible it is to write and run code in the browser without the need to transpile or build.
Imagine, writing front-end code without needing a backend to translate for you!
My thinking is that transpiling can happen as part of the last step before final release, if not never.
We can argue whether this is a pipe dream or not, but I can say for sure it [breaks down](https://github.com/WICG/import-maps) in the web worker context.
In short, Web workers struggle with importing in a way that feels comfortable with me.  In searching for a better feel, I reach the need to rewrite code that imports other modules.  Service worker and babel to the rescue.
With this solution I can write import statements that look like what I'd write with the backend build system.  I can use import maps almost like a package.json.
To put it briefly, the dream is alive and it feels pretty solid.

The service worker story is a bit different, though.  Since the SW is what does the transpiling for workers, it's a case of who transpiles the transpiler.
I decided I would create a build script for the service worker and check the output of that in ahead of time.  I arrived at using rollup.
To be frank, the rollup experience was much more pleasant.  With rollup, I solve almost the same problem by writing a plugin that resolves modules.
With babel, I have to dig deeper into the weeds by writing a plugin that is closer to code parsing.  This begs a question.

Why not just use rollup for both?

The best answer I can currently give is that babel is closer to the "metal" than rollup.  To me, that means it's the better solution for on-the-fly translation of code.
Still, I prize the notion of reducing cognitive overhead and maintenance cost.  I struggle to balance cogntivie load versus performance.
That said, I'll live with doing both until I have a better answer.

I thought it was an interesting thing to think about regardless.  I've tried to keep it short, but I am happy to offer more detail if asked.  I'm still working on improving my technical communication skills.

Here's the solution I am settling on:
1) service worker has it's own build using rollup
	- can build within fiug
	- should also work through a github action
2) workers are ran using "node" command
	- "node" will access `/-/worker/{path to script}` to get a transpiled worker
	- service worker will use babel to resolve all depenendencies (will rewrite specifiers)

As I dig deeper into this, I see a need to somehow cache dependencies into a vendor file that is somehow checked in.
I saw this issue with skypack.dev not finding files which terminal needs.  This resulted in terminal showing blank.
This may be solved as I work out builds for each of the major components: tree, editor, and terminal.

Also, I see an issue with editor cache not being invalidated when service-worker build script is ran.
This makes it look like the build script did not run. `https://beta.fiug.dev/service/change` needs an option to invalidate editor cache, I think.

## move to backlog
- [ ] tree changed files indicator icons are still jumping on Mac on hover/exit
- [ ] other git commands: list, open, close, pull
- [ ] git config alias
	- git config --global alias.br branch   
	- git config --global alias.ci commit
	- git config --global alias.st status
- [ ] refactor
	- [X] major modules in their own folders: editor, tree, sw
	- [ ] wire up UI to use modules from folders vs in "modules" folder
	- [ ] remove "shared" folder (or drastically reduce size)
- [ ] git pull: get changes from remote for a repo that already exists
	- [ ] when repo is "pulled" should not blow away .git folder
	- [ ] when repo is "pulled" should not blow away current changes
- fiug command? gh/octokit command?
	- [ ] list all repos that are cloned
	- [ ] list all repos from an owner
	- [ ] list all branches for a repo
	- [ ] do everything [github CLI](https://cli.github.com/) does (lol)
- [ ] worker transpiling
- [ ] consider using webcomponent or shadow dom vs iframe
	- [case in point](https://medium.com/bbc-design-engineering/goodbye-iframes-6c84a651e137)
	- or don't make this decision / do this work right now
- [ ] editor horizontal scroll
- [ ] merge editor changes with git changed(?)
- [ ] feed exclusively on update event
	- editor tabs: order, open, changed, new, pinned
	- tree: service name, selected, changed, new, open, scroll?
	- editor: selected, history, scroll, etc
	- terminal: current dir (if not in session), service name
- [ ] write a custom CM mode that works by wrapping another syntax highlighter:
http://www.java2s.com/example/javascript/codemirror/codemirror-custom-mode-apply-styles-on-keywords.html
(or dynamically loads any given mode?)
- [ ] settings: should show status of pulling/cloning
- [ ] search: chokes sometimes (use GH search api?)
- [ ] tabs: still weird issues / dancing
- [ ] tree: parent folder not indicating changed child
- [ ] delay occurs before editor loads sometimes
	- issue seems to occur because of file store get
- [ ] copy is hooked up in tree
- [ ] tree(?) fires multiple events
	- when dragging from one folder to another
- [ ] offline command downloads all files from repo
- [ ] DO NOT: download all files in service manifest on first load
	- balance this against offline usage
	- especially do not download files needed for templates
- [ ] DO: load editor modes as needed, cache and cleanup
- [ ] DO: clean up editor state as needed
	- when undo file change reverts to unchanged state, this file is touched but no longer changed
	- when a touched file is closed, it is no longer touched
- [ ] DO: clean up orphaned files
	- files that are not opened and not in tree should be removed from store
- [ ] DO NOT: keep state in many different places
	- which files are open: tracked in SW and tabs
	- which files are changed: tracked in SW and tabs
	- editor changes and file changes in different stores

### REMOVE DEAD CODE
- [ ] terminal module
	- cleanup following rewrite/shift in mindset
	- includes removing old preview code
- [ ] editor
	- load doc should be handled strictly by plugin
	- state should come from outside module
- [ ] editor tabs
	- shift to rely strongly on SW state
- [ ] tree / explorer
	- anything left from previous iteration?
