---
layout: post
title: "fiug.dev v0.4.3"
description: "file operations, git, editor mini-map, terminal, and preview"
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1816471/115645234-02556880-a2ee-11eb-9e7d-e5c434632cf2.png
video: https://www.youtube.com/embed/7T-L-MBFoE4

started: 2021-04-20   
released: 2021-08-19   
updated: 2021-08-19

tags:
  - releases
---

Most of the changes in this release relate to delivering what I consider a quality experience.  I will detail most of what changed in the following paragraphs and you can also check out the video which mostly covers the same thing.  That said, the video and the text below are estranged in some sense.  

First of note, all **file operations** have migrated to the service worker and are now fully unit-tested within fiug.  These are operations that create, read, update, delete (CRUD) files and folders.  CRUD opartions used to be handled in a somewhat half-hazard way in the core of the app.  Now they have moved to service worker where they are cleaned up and modularized.  This functionality is fully unit-tested within fiug using [qUnit](https://qunitjs.com/) in a barebones fashion.  I'm pleased with how much running and writing unit tests within fiug closely resembles testing in VS Code with mocha or jest.

File operations have been a bane to me in the past.  I think it's impossible and/or very frustrating to do this sort of thing correctly while targeting a user interface; unit tests are a much better target at least at first.  I can safely say that this is behind me minus some edge cases that I don't think it's wise to tackle right now.  Just a quick note about this, I also made sure that these operations work with the "git" abstraction. 

Another call-out, I've shifted **preview** from being a menu item in terminal to being a terminal command that is invoked.  Previously I was thinking of preview as something triggered by selecting it in the UI.  Recently, I have shifted the way I think about developing fiug to a terminal-first approach.  I shifted preview to a terminal execution model and that means I don't have to answer some of the questions relating to an "always on" or "always available" model.  This means that preview was rewritten to be a command that is invoked in the terminal and events are only monitored when preview is running.

Speaking of the terminal, I have moved it to exist within an iframe.  I will probably do this with all of the core UI components.  Settling on abstractions that make sense is a pain... That said, I think iframes offer the right degree of separation from the rest of the application for now.  Maybe some day I will switch to web components.  I am happy to speak at length about what all this means for terminal, but I will forgo writing about it for now.

Lastly, there are things that came along for the ride with this release.
- I brushed off the code that tracks **editor state** and did an okay job on making sure it works.  Editor state refers to things like tracking undo history and scroll position.
- I added an **editor mini-map** which is mostly done, but still a little buggy.
- I connected **context menu items** where possible and hid them otherwise.  There were a few casualities where functionality steps backwards, but I'm not terribly concerned about those right now.
- and there were a few other little things that it's not worth going over

The full list of changes follow.  Man, is this dry or what?  Who reads release notes?  lol


### Changes

- [X] version (status bar and terminal) comes from package.json
- [X] changes in queue are reflected in file store after commit
- [X] delete for commits (because add already works)
- [X] file content as expected after move/copy operations
- [X] files in change queue are modified when operations occur
- [X] file (like .keep) don't show up as ready for commit
- [X] command palette file find -> preview issues
- [X] sw freaks and app doesn't crash well:
	- with dragging a file from one new folder to another new folder
- [X] rename file and folder need to be verified
- [X] paths which include ".." or "." work for all commands
- [X] cp command works properly for files
- [X] cp command works properly for folders
- [X] terminal commands do not terminate properly
- [X] .keep files seem to not be created for new folder
- [X] cp is not present in terminal
- [X] mv command works properly for files
- [X] mv command works properly for folders
- [X] preview help documentation
- [X] preview should support wildcards, ie. \*.md
- [X] preview with no arguments should preview current file (like old preview)
- [X] context menu for editor
- [X] preview as a terminal command vs a menu item
	- preview should honor selected file when service switched (may not do this)
- [X] rm command works properly for folder
- [X] editor tabs: on file delete, close tab (and switch editor)
- [X] service name issues with path in terminal
	- should not be able to cd lower than serviceName when service is loaded
	- cd /path should translate into serviceName/path
- [X] git diff at root is messed up
- [X] ls command needs to use the folder it was passed versus current state
- [X] tab doesn't appear sometimes even though editor loads
- [X] terminal watch mode for js files
- [X] recall scroll position when markdown preview (for example) updates
- [X] hook up editor context menu
- [X] markdown preview recall scroll position
- [X] clicking on a search result opens file at that line
- [X] base href in html, added in service worker
- [X] md/mkdir command works properly
- [X] syntax highlight broken with editor updates/revert
- [X] re-enable/fix editor updates from past
	- editor document state
- [X] cd ../sibling results in parent//sibling (at 1 up from root)
- [X] terminal has its own cwd not dependent on app cwd
- [X] cat command works properly
- [X] better code fold behavior (gutter hover)
- [X] rm command works properly for file
- [X] touch command works properly
- [X] cd into parent/child results in going parent/parent/child
- [X] cd to / (root) then git commit/diff mess up
- [X] editor tabs close others, close all
- [X] explorer: fix new folder/file icons
- [X] when file is selected for preview, use full path of file
- [X] on commit, update file and changes stores
- [X] git commit should offer message on success/fail
- [X] something is messed up about cwd from app (esp for files at root)
- [X] tabs don't trigger editor properly
	- this specifically occurs with bartokv0.4.3.md
	- also occurs in other situations
	- switch services and come back (seems to trigger this)

