---

title: "Version 0.4.3"
description: "file operations; focus blurred a bit and added/fixed a few other things"
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1816471/115645234-02556880-a2ee-11eb-9e7d-e5c434632cf2.png
video: 7T-L-MBFoE4

started: 2021-04-20
released: 2021-08-19
date: 2021-08-19

category: released

---

also see [fiug.dev - 2021-06-14](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zDPFYCLt_rE) video


**file operations** have migrated to the service worker and are now fully unit-tested within fiug.  These are operations that create, read, update, delete (CRUD) files and folders.  CRUD opartions used to be handled in a somewhat half-hazard way in the core of the app.  Now they have moved to service worker where they are cleaned up and modularized.  This functionality is fully unit-tested within fiug using [qUnit](https://qunitjs.com/) in a barebones fashion.  I'm pleased with how much running and writing unit tests within fiug closely resembles testing in VS Code with mocha or jest.

File operations have been a bane to me in the past.  I think it's impossible and/or very frustrating to do this sort of thing correctly while targeting a user interface; unit tests are a much better target at least at first.  I can safely say that this is behind me minus some edge cases that I don't think it's wise to tackle right now.

**git** supports operations mentioned above.  This means the changes you make in fiug will persist to your github repository when you push a commit.  

**preview** has shifted from being a terminal menu item to being a terminal command that is invoked.  Previously I was thinking of preview as something triggered by selecting it in the UI.  Recently, I have shifted the way I think about developing fiug to a terminal-first approach.  I shifted preview to a terminal execution model and that means I don't have to answer some of the questions relating to an "always on" or "always available" model.  This means that preview was rewritten to be a command that is invoked in the terminal and events are only monitored when preview is running.

**terminal** has moved to an iframe versus a module.  I will probably do this with all of the core UI components.  Settling on abstractions that make sense is a pain... That said, I think iframes offer the right degree of separation from the rest of the application for now.  Maybe some day I will switch to web components.  I am happy to speak at length about what all this means for terminal, but I will forgo writing about it for now.

**editor state** refers to tracking and restoring things like history and scroll position.  I already had written a codemirror plugin for this, but it was disabled because it was buggy.  Now it's enabled and a little less buggy.

**mini-map** was added and is mostly done, but it's still a little buggy.

**context menu** items were connected where possible and hid otherwise (versus being disabled).  There were a few casualities where functionality steps backwards, but I'm not terribly concerned about those right now.

<!-- more -->

### Changes

- [X] version (status bar and terminal) comes from package.json
- [X] changes in queue are reflected in file store after commit
- [X] delete for commits (because add already works)
- [X] file content as expected after move/copy operations
- [X] files in change queue are modified when operations occur
- [X] file (like .keep) don't show up as ready for commit
- [X] command palette file find -> preview issues
- [X] sw freaks and app doesn't crash well:
	- with dragging a file from one new folder to another new folder
- [X] rename file and folder need to be verified
- [X] paths which include ".." or "." work for all commands
- [X] cp command works properly for files
- [X] cp command works properly for folders
- [X] terminal commands do not terminate properly
- [X] .keep files seem to not be created for new folder
- [X] cp is not present in terminal
- [X] mv command works properly for files
- [X] mv command works properly for folders
- [X] preview help documentation
- [X] preview should support wildcards, ie. \*.md
- [X] preview with no arguments should preview current file (like old preview)
- [X] context menu for editor
- [X] preview as a terminal command vs a menu item
	- preview should honor selected file when service switched (may not do this)
- [X] rm command works properly for folder
- [X] editor tabs: on file delete, close tab (and switch editor)
- [X] service name issues with path in terminal
	- should not be able to cd lower than serviceName when service is loaded
	- cd /path should translate into serviceName/path
- [X] git diff at root is messed up
- [X] ls command needs to use the folder it was passed versus current state
- [X] tab doesn't appear sometimes even though editor loads
- [X] terminal watch mode for js files
- [X] recall scroll position when markdown preview (for example) updates
- [X] hook up editor context menu
- [X] markdown preview recall scroll position
- [X] clicking on a search result opens file at that line
- [X] base href in html, added in service worker
- [X] md/mkdir command works properly
- [X] syntax highlight broken with editor updates/revert
- [X] re-enable/fix editor updates from past
	- editor document state
- [X] cd ../sibling results in parent//sibling (at 1 up from root)
- [X] terminal has its own cwd not dependent on app cwd
- [X] cat command works properly
- [X] better code fold behavior (gutter hover)
- [X] rm command works properly for file
- [X] touch command works properly
- [X] cd into parent/child results in going parent/parent/child
- [X] cd to / (root) then git commit/diff mess up
- [X] editor tabs close others, close all
- [X] explorer: fix new folder/file icons
- [X] when file is selected for preview, use full path of file
- [X] on commit, update file and changes stores
- [X] git commit should offer message on success/fail
- [X] something is messed up about cwd from app (esp for files at root)
- [X] tabs don't trigger editor properly
	- this specifically occurs with bartokv0.4.3.md
	- also occurs in other situations
	- switch services and come back (seems to trigger this)

